---
title: "A Dead Poet"
date: 2026-07-03T12:00:00+08:00
draft: false
tags: ["journal","non-fiction"]
---


Today, I have decided to write a short set of paragraphs. I am hoping that my raw and unfiltered emotions—and a lack of proper drafting—will not muddy the emotion I want to get across. I will confess, I was not in the best shape in these past few days. It would be an understatement to say that I have not been in a good shape for a decade and a half. However, I digress. This 'monologue' has not been written to cry out for help (as I have grown tired of writing such cumbersome journals) but instead to reflect on a film that I have recently witnessed.


Now that the inevitable self-aware and subdued statement is out of the way, let us start talking about the film. Dead Poets Society, despite coming out 37 years ago, has recently surged in popularity. A matter of fact, it is how I even learned about it. Now, one has to ask: Why? The answer is very simple. In fact, it is so obvious that I do not think anyone has even asked why. Humans are inherently rebellious—it may not show on the surface due to how docile and unquestioning our society had become—but it is there. The active resurgence of such films shows how hard we are trying to rebel against the standard that had already been placed on us by the elite. That we must conform to society, repress our emotions, and play the part of a cog in the machine. We must be real men, we must be real women, we must be perfect children, we must absolutely and most undoubtedly play our part. I am aware that this might sound pretentiously philosophical but what consists of the idea of a "perfect example", anyway? If the idea of conforming to society, and to follow a linear track and achieve a cookie cutter definition of success is the hallmark of a perfect example; then why does it bring so much sorrow to us? Why does such film had to be made, and why was and is it so popular? Clearly, we have overstated the importance of such goal.


My fellows, do not stop dreaming. I understand that what was portrayed in the film (I say this in a way not to spoil the plot to those who have not seen it yet) was a rather extreme yet very plausible example—but we must never let the fire go out inside of us. I understand that there are people out there who genuinely believe that materialism is a true form of happiness; but for the rest of us who feel hollow right now, I am with you. Just like you, I get distracted. Of the algorithms, of the demeaning and dehumanizing corporatism-slash-consumerism we face everyday, and of the ever increasing difficulty to sustain a stable life. I understand that we must keep a sturdy expression and weather this mundane yet excruciating storm, still, please do not give up your imagination. do not give up on your thoughts and ideas. I understand that you and me, we are just pair out of billions. That does not diminish our value. We are connected to earth, just how the flora and fauna are core dressings of the ensemble. No one is allowed to undermine your importance, but you do, you demean yourself. And because of that, you are in agony. 
It is not too late; seize the day.